---
title: "5. Database"
layout: default
permalink: "/projects/xilmass/wiki/5-Database"
tags: wiki, xilmass
project: "xilmass"
github_project: "https://github.com/compomics/xilmass"
---

# 5. Database
## 5.a. A given database header format

Your database must contain both target and decoy sequences with generic headers. You can use [DBToolKit] (https://github.com/compomics/dbtoolkit) to generate your decoy protein sequences from your target protein sequences.

Your database must have the headers in the right format for Xilmass identifications. 
At the moment, Xilmass works with a fasta file that contains only generic headers, instead of Uniprot headers. 
Therefore, all protein headers must start with ">generic", instead of any other headers like ">sp|", ">sw|" or so on. For example,

`>generic|P17156|Protein info` is required instead of `>sp|P17156|Protein info`

Additionally, a decoy protein must have a header that contains "REVERSED" or "SHUFFLED" in capital and seperated by an underscore from an accession number. For example,

`>generic|P17156_REVERSED|Protein info` is required instead of `>generic|P17156REVERSED|Protein info` or 
                                                               `>generic|P17156reversed|Protein info` or 
                                                               `>generic|P17156_reversed|Protein info`

`>generic|P17156_SHUFFLED|Protein info` is required instead of `>generic|P17156SHUFFLED|Protein info` or 
                                                               `>generic|P17156shuffled|Protein info` or
                                                               `>generic|P17156_shuffled|Protein info`

Lastly, all headers must contain only unicode-headers.
 

## 5.b. A cross-linked peptide search database 
A cross-linked peptide search database is written to a modified FASTA version with the `.fastacp` extension. Even though it is a plain text file, the database generated by Xilmass cannot be used by any other search engine. Sequence lines contain asterisks (`*`) and vertical bars also known as a pipe (`|`).

**Header:** Headers start with `>` protein accession number such as generic or [UniProtKB] (http://www.uniprot.org/) accessions are written with both start and end residue numbers of the peptide within the protein on which the enzymatic cleavage occurs (on the example, `(25-37)` and `(11-21)`). A linked-residue number on each peptide is written next (on the example, `1` and `6`). The first part comes from a protein with a longer putative peptide sequence. If two peptides have the same length, the first peptide is randomly selected. In case that the entry is for mono-linked peptides, this header contains the information about the peptide and `-monolinked`.

**Sequence:** Peptide sequences are written with an asterisk (`*`). Two peptide sequences are separated from each other by a vertical bar (`|`). The first part comes from the longer putative peptide sequence. The selection is based on firstly a peptide length, then a peptide mass. If two peptides have the same length, the heavier peptide is selected as the first peptide.  In case that the entry is for mono-linked peptides, this peptide contains only one peptide with an asterisk (`*`) that shows a linked residue.

An example for a cross-linked peptide entry:

    >Q15149(25-37)_1_Q15149(11-21)_6
    K*TFTKWVNKHLIK|ASEGKK*DERDR

An example for a mono-linked peptide entry:

    >4Q57:B(22-27)_5-monolinked
    DRVQ K*K

An example of such cross-linked peptide database can be found on [here](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/archive/projects/PXD003880)

