---
title: "5. Troubleshooting"
layout: default
permalink: "/projects/pladipus/wiki/5-Troubleshooting"
tags: wiki, pladipus
project: "pladipus"
github_project: "https://github.com/compomics/pladipus"
---

# Troubleshooting

<sub>Before going through the following subjects, please visit the [Latest update](http://compomics.github.io/pladipus/wiki/6updates.html). Hopefully your problem was resolved already!

* [Pladipus issues](#pladipus-issues)
* [ActiveMQ issues](#activemq-issues)
* [MySQL issues](#mysql-issues)
* [Other](#other-issues)

----

# Pladipus issues

### I'm using a template, but I don't see a new run appear

Please verify that the run you are trying to create has a different name from existing ones for your user account. Otherwise, new jobs will get added to the existing run.

### I have created a run, why aren't the workers starting it?

Upon creation, a run is put on hold. If you want to launch it, please open the management console, right click the run(s) that need to be started and press "start".

----

# ActiveMQ issues

### `ActiveMQ can not be reached`

You can verify this by connection to the IP of the connector at port 8161 in a browser, for example : 192.168.22.45:8161. When you see you are able to connect OR the website prompts you for credentials, the ActiveMQ console is running. See [the ActiveMQ installation manual](http://compomics.github.io/pladipus/wiki/1installation.html#installing-activemq) for more details...

Is the host specified in the activemq.xml <b>localhost</b> or <b>127.0.0.1</b> ? Then replace this with the actual IP of the machine hosting the server to allow external connections.

----

# MySQL issues

### `Database is not being imported, despite having a connection' `

This can potentially be due to the provided account not having the correct privileges. This can be resolved by executing the following query on your MySQL instance : 

`GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON pladipus.* TO '[user_name]'@'%' WITH GRANT OPTION;`

### `java.sql.SQLException: Unknown system variable 'language' `

This error is due to a bug in the MySQL software prior to the 5.5.x versions. Please upgrade your MySQL version. For more details, please refer to [the MySQL installer manual](http://compomics.github.io/pladipus/wiki/1installation.html#installing-mysql).

### `java.sql.SQLException: Unknown system variable 'lower_case_table_names' `

This error can occur on MySQL versions 5.5.x and up. It is commonly solved by adding the following lines into the my.ini file. 

`[mysqld]`

`lower_case_table_names=1`

For more information, please refer to [the MySQL installer manual](http://compomics.github.io/pladipus/wiki/installingmysql.html).

----

# My problem is not yet listed here

In order to determine the cause of the problem, please go through the following checklist : 

----

# Other issues

The following topics might help you to identify problems :

* Does the controller/database server/activeMQ server allow connections on the specified hosts/ports?
* Is a firewall blocking traffic?
* Do all machines in the network pool have internet access and can they reach the controller?
* Does the user running pladipus have adequate user privileges, for example to create a new file?
* Not receiving run completion notifications? Did you provide a valid e-mail address?
* Are the database settings that are declared in the network.properties file correct?
* Does your database account have full privileges on the database?
* Was the Pladipus database schema correctly initiated during the installation?

----