---
title: "ReleaseNotes"
layout: default
permalink: "/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/wiki/ReleaseNotes"
tags: wiki, ThermoRawFileParser
project: "ThermoRawFileParser"
github_project: "https://github.com/compomics/ThermoRawFileParser"
---

# ReleaseNotes

---
**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.4.2 (February 11. 2023):**

* Proper handling of precursors in decision tree methods from tribrids
> RAW files acquired on tribrid platform with methods employing so-called *decision tree* have unusual precursor information. The fix implements proper handling of such files. Refer to [Issue 147](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/147) for details. 
* Output file extension always follows the file format and (if employed) gzip compression
> Refer to [Issue 148](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/148) for details.
* Support for input files provided as symlinks
> Earlier versions of TRFP failed if the input argument was a symlink. Currently, TRFP can detect such cases and resolve symlink target to process it. Refer to [Issue 146](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/146) for details.
* Support for single file output for `xic` subcommand
> Added an option `-b|--output_file` allowing control over output file name. Works only for single file input. The short command line key `-b` is the same as for other subcommands. **NOTE This change breaks command line compatibility with earlier versions - `-b` was previously used to produce base64-encoded output; now the short key for base64-encoding is `-6`, the long key compatibility is preserved.
* Allowing optional field `comment` in XIC input json file
> The comment field is preserved during XIC extraction and can be used as a key to identify different XICs in the output.
* Thermo .NET assemblies were updated to version 5.0.0.88

---
**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.4.1 (October 10. 2022):**

* Files with missing trailer information can be processed
> Some RAW files have a missing part of the scan named `trailer`, now these files can be processed [Issue 141](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/141). Please, note that a trailer contains technical information necessary for some of the functions, such as monoisotopic mass, charge, etc. These might not work properly for the scans with the missing trailer.
* Using dedicated CV term for mzML output
> Now ThermoRawFileParser uses CV terms added around august 2021, as a consequence some downstream tools released before this date might fail to process files generated by ThermoRawFileParser. The solution is to update downstream tools to the recent version [Issue 112](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/112)
* Support for all possible MS levels in MGF output
> All MS levels are included in the output, previously only up to MS3; the change mirrors earlier change in mzML output
* Proper processing of empty RAW files
> The program does not crash when empty (0 MS scans) file is provided [Issue 144](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/144)
* Fixed a bug in handling isolation offset in mzML output
> Isolation window borders account for isolation offset if it is used by the instrument
* Refining OS exit codes reporting and "warning as error" key
> The exit code now shows the number of errors encountered during processing, i.e. non-zero code indicates possible problems. If a key `-w` `--warningsAreErrors` is specified, the exit code is the number of warnings and errors (warnings still will be reported as warnings in the log) [Issue 140](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/140) Some of the error and warning messages have been rewritten
* More logging levels
> Two new logging levels are added. Warning (3) omits information messages, Error (4) omits information and warning messages
* Exit codes and logging work in the same way for subcommands as well

---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.4.0 (June 10. 2022):**

* Precursor intensity was added to mzML files
> Precursor intensity is now included in mzML output, the output should be fairly similar to ProteoWizard. However, the intensity value should be used with caution, see [Issue 125](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/125) and cited issues.
* Support for all possible MS levels
> All MS levels are included in the output, previously only up to MS3; mapping precursor scans using new method [Issue 126](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/126)
* `-x` switch has reversed its meaning
> When `-x` is defined reference and exception data will be excluded from the output, by default they will be included. Similar to Proteowizard.
* Plain mzML (non-indexed) is forced when using `-s` and mzML format
> When using output to STDOUT and mzML format, the format will be always non-indexed [Issue 118](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/118)
* Updated ontology terms for ionization methods (HUPO PSI-MS version 4.1.79)
> Added / updated ionization methods, [Issue 128](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/128) Thank you, @[abdelq](https://github.com/abdelq)
* Switch to include noise and baseline data (`-N`)
> With the new switch `-N|noiseData` noise and baseline data can be included in mzML output [Issue 130](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/130) Thank you, @[GeorgWa](https://github.com/GeorgWa)
* Spectral points are sorted by mass
> [Issue 117](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/117)
* Metadata, format, and logging switches recognize both numeric and string values of parameters
> It is possible to use both text representation (case-insensitive) and numeric representation for switches, i.e. `-f mzml` and `-f 1` are the same [Issue 121](/projects/ThermoRawFileParser/issues/121)

---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.3.4 (April 20. 2021):**

* Disable peak picking for specified MS levels
* Rollback of ThermoRawFileParser CV term until downstream tools update their PSI-MS CV

---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.3.3 (April 01. 2021):**

* Removed BOM prefix in indexed mzML output
* Addition of MS:1000576 (no compression) CV term when no compression is used
* Same metadata output for both TEXT and JSON formats
* FAIMS compensation voltage output
* Thermo libraries upgrade to 5.0.0.71
* `-s, --stdout` option addition for writing to standard out (mostly for Windows)

---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.3.2 (October 02. 2020):**

* Flag -x include reference and exception peaks
* SPS masses are included as precursors in mzML
* Ignore all not .raw files when processing folder
* Updates in instrument and detector mapping to PSI-MS CV terms

---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.3.1 (September 08. 2020):**

* Select MS levels to be written to the file (`-L|--msLevel` command line argument)
* Write precursor scan number in the TITLE of MGF file (`-P|--mgfPrecursor` command line argument)
* Correct version of the assembly
* Correct typo in `-a` flag description

---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.3.0 (August 26. 2020):**

* Able to extract additional detector data - UV, PDA, pressure chromatograms, PDA spectra (new command line argument `-a|--allDetectors`)
* Fix instrument mapping and adding new instruments (Exploris series, ID-X etc)
* Update PSI-MS ontology version
* Fix empty output directory bug

---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.2.3 (May 4. 2020):**

* Default centroiding of segmented scan data
* Thermo libraries upgrade
---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.2.2 (March 2. 2020):**

* Minor change in biocontainer docker file
---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.2.1 (February 14. 2020):**

* Bug fixes
* Additional XIC input validation
---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.2.0 (February 6. 2020):**

* Addition xic and query subcommands (beta)
* Minor bug fixes
---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.1.11 (September 25. 2019):**

* Addition of more Thermo instrument models
---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.1.10 (August 23. 2019):**

* input directory argument addition
* silent logging mode
* metadata output file argument addition
* error handling improvements
---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.1.9 (July 2. 2019):**

* no zlib compression flag addition for the binary data in the mzML output
---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.1.8 (June 18. 2019):**

* addition of a progress indicator
* in MGF output: if no charge is found, no `CHARGE` header instead of `CHARGE=0+`

---

**Changes in ThermoRawFileParser 1.1.7 (June 4. 2019):**

* reports the monoisotopic mass as precursor mass when available
* fixed MS3 precursor scan not found
* fixed wrong scan type annotation (centroid/profile) in mzML output
* log file appender is commented out
* addition of --version argument
* updated thermo library to version to 5.0.0.6
* added extra log statement with the number of scans being processed
* fixed max and min charge bug in json metadata output

----